If we pray for God's will to be done, even though it will come to pass no matter what, then _what is the true purpose of prayer?_ _What is its true nature?_ _What really is it?_ The primary purpose of prayer might not be to have our requests granted to us.

For us Christians, praying should be as natural as breathing. By praying, we serve/obey God and fulfill His commands to us (_Philippians 4:6–7_ commands to pray in everything). Jesus was very diligent in prayer; He would get up early in the morning and go to a quiet place to pray (_Mark 1:35_). The early church also exemplifies devotion to prayer (_Acts 1:14, Acts 2:42, Acts 3:1_, etc.).

Prayer is also, as is more commonly known, a means for requesting things from God. When we have problems, are in tough situations that require decisions to be made, or in need of something, we can obtain solutions through prayer. In _Luke 6:12–13_, we see that Jesus prayed day and night before choosing the twelve. It seems He had many disciples and chose the twelve from among them. Before He made this major decision, He was devoted to prayer. Solomon also prayed to God for wisdom to lead His people, and God granted this request. We pray to obtain strength to overcome temptation (_Matthew 26:41_) and also for our brothers and sisters in Christ to be strengthened spiritually (_Ephesians 6:18–19_). _Hebrews 4:16_ lets us know that because we are in Christ, we can approach God freely and confidently to receive grace and mercy in the time of need.

Prayer is a way to battle demonic forces and obtain healing. In _Mark 9:14–29_ we see that the disciples of Jesus were surprised as to why they could not cast out a demon, and Jesus told them that it couldn't be driven out by anything _but_ prayer.

God has promised us that our prayers are not in vain even if we do not receive what we asked for, and that when we ask for things in line with His will, He will grant us those things (_1 John 5:14–15_). Sometimes God delays answers according to His wisdom and for our own benefit (_Matthew 7:7, Luke 18:1–8_). Prayer should not be seen as a way of getting God to do what _we_ want but a way of getting _God's_ will done on earth (which is far better tbh). _James 4:2–3_ tells us that we often lack things simply because we do not ask for them. (_Does this then also mean that sometimes God waits for us to pray for things even though He already intends to do those things?_) And we ask and do not receive because we ask wrongly, to spend on our passions. _James 4:1–12_ is a warning against worldliness; therefore, we should not pray in a worldly manner with our minds set on worldly things, but we should pray _in the Spirit_ with our minds set on heavenly things.

When we don't pray, it shows that we do not have faith in God's Word and promises. It shows a lack of dependence on God. 

> ⚠ _This section is still under review_
> God's will is often conditional on man. He involves people in His plans. We see examples of this in _Daniel 9:2-3, Isaiah 62:6-7,_ and _Matthew 13:58_. In _2 Chronicles 7:14_, we see another example that encapsulates the nature of biblical prophecy. In other words, biblical prophecy is often conditional; God's eventual actions are dependent on the response of the people.

So let us delight in prayer as we grow ever closer to our eternal Father and seek His will to be done here on earth. God most certainly listens to our prayers and answers them. He delights in them even (Proverbs 15:8). May God continue to increase us in wisdom and help us to live and work according to His will.